Lab Name: Installing and Setting Up Python
Objectives
Understand how to download and install the latest version of Python.
Verify the Python installation on your system.
Install and set up a code editor or IDE, focusing on Visual Studio Code (VS Code) and PyCharm.
Prerequisites
A computer with internet access.
Basic knowledge of using a computer and navigating the internet.
Lab Tasks
Task 1: Download and Install the Latest Python Version
Step 1: Download Python
Visit the official Python website: Python.org
Click on the Downloads tab.
Choose your operating system (e.g., Windows, macOS, Linux) from the menu that appears.
Click on the recommended installation icon to download the installer package. This may appear as Python 3.x.x.
Step 2: Install Python
For Windows:

Navigate to your Downloads folder and double-click the downloaded Python installer (e.g., python-3.x.x.exe).
In the installer window, check the box that says Add Python 3.x to PATH.
Click on the Install Now button.
Wait for the installation to complete, and then click Close.
For macOS:

Open the downloaded .pkg file.
Follow the installer prompts and click Continue through the installation screens.
Finish the installation by clicking Close.
For Linux:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3
Task 2: Verify Installation
Open a terminal or command prompt on your system.

Type the following command to check the installed Python version:

python --version
You should see output similar to Python 3.x.x, confirming that Python is installed.

Task 3: Install a Code Editor or IDE
Step 1: Install VS Code
Visit the official Visual Studio Code website: code.visualstudio.com.
Click on the Download button to get the installer for your operating system.
Run the installer and follow the instructions to complete the installation process.
Step 2: Install PyCharm
Visit the JetBrains website: JetBrains PyCharm.
Click on the Download button and select the Community edition for your operating system.
Run the installer and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup.
Key Concepts and Technical Terms
Python: An open-source programming language known for its ease of learning and diverse applications.
IDE: Integrated Development Environment, a software application providing comprehensive facilities to programmers.
PATH: An environment variable specifying a set of directories where executable programs are located.
Conclusion
In this lab, you successfully downloaded and installed Python on your system and verified the installation through the command line. Additionally, you set up a versatile code editor, either Visual Studio Code or PyCharm, to facilitate your Python development. This foundational setup is crucial for future programming labs and projects.

For further explorations, delve into introductory Python programming tutorials and start creating your first Python scripts!